---
layout: post
wordpress_id: 46
title: Missed a day already
wordpress_url: http://www.alieniloquent.com/2006/03/01/missed-a-day-already/
---
I set a goal for myself to blog every day, and I don't even manage to do three
days in a row. That's embarrassing.

Yesterday was a busy one. I went to work at 0730, as usual, and worked on some
fun stuff until 1200, and then I came home. I ate some leftovers and tried to
take a short nap. It only lasted 15 minutes. I did manage to doze off a
little, as I recall having some dreams, but I think that I was a little awake
at the same time.

Then I ran off to South Campus for my graph theory class. I got my first exam
back: 94%, yay! Class was interesting. We spent most of the time talking about
some algorithms I already knew, but then we started talking about matching,
and that should prove to be interesting. That class got out at 1445.

After class I drove up to North Campus to hang with the physics TAs and piddle
around on my computer. I looked at my budget (it's still mostly blank) and my
bank balance, and then I started a new programming project.

My next class was at 1730. Analysis is a fun class. I like the instructor, and
I like the topic. I didn't think I'd like doing seemingly inane proofs of
stuff that Just Makes Sense, but it actually is fun (for me). We talked about
subsequences and then we talked about monotone sequences and the Monotone
Convergence Theorem.

After class, Erica and I grabbed a bite to eat and came home to take a real
nap. This one lasted 45 minutes or so. I got up from the nap, and was still
tired, so I just went back to bed.

My alarm went off this morning at 0455 and then again at 0503 and 0505
(There's two alarms, and it only waits 8 minutes). I was up and ready to go
after the second one. I hopped in the shower, and that's when I realized that
I'd completely spaced blogging last night.

Consider this yesterday's post. I'll post again later today.

