--- 
layout: post
wordpress_id: 62
title: Bad Boy Scout
wordpress_url: http://www.alieniloquent.com/?p=62
--- |+
I know I haven't been posting, and it's mostly been because I've been busy.
Sometimes, it was because I just didn't know what I wanted to post.
Regardless, I haven't been keeping up with any form of my blogging resolution
for over a month.

This last week has been a really intense week, and has given me something
worth coming out of my blogging cocoon for: love. I want to write about it and
share it with the people who read my blog. If you're just here for the
technical stuff, you should probably skip this post.

A few months back, Erica was surfing around on [OkCupid][1] and found a couple
of really cool people. They happened to be a couple and they happened to be
here in Omaha. We all went out for dinner and realized that we all had a lot
in common. We got together a couple more times after that, and decided to get
together on a regular basis for a Mage game once the semester was over.

The more we've hung out with [Jessica][2] and Michael, the more we've realized
we have in common. The four of us share so many references and pseudo-inside
jokes it's just not funny. Beyond that we have many of the same quirks and
hobbies. It is really uncanny how similar we all are.

Last Thursday Jessica invited us out to karaoke at her bar, and Erica and I
went. We all had a blast. Friday night Jessica came over and we all just hung
out. Saturday we went out to karaoke again, and we ended up having a slumber
party at the Bibliotesla. In fact, out of the days since last Thursday, we've
all hung out on every one of them except Tuesday, and we all chatted online
that night. It's been very intense.

Now, what relevance does this have? Why am I blogging about it? Well, like I
said, this post is about love. Some of you may know, and the rest of you will
find out now: I am [polyamorous][3]. For those of you who don't want to follow
the link, it essentially means that I do not restrict myself to having only
one loving relationship at a time. For the longest time, I have only had one,
but I have always been open to the idea of more.

I've always been of the belief that the relationships that last are the ones
you aren't looking for. Erica and I just happened. We weren't planned. We both
got swept up in a whirlwind and fell for each other hard. We were married
within one year of meeting each other, and we're working on our sixth year of
marriage now. This week is reminding me of the beginning of the summer during
which she and I met.

Jessica and I have so much in common, it's ridiculous. Before I met Erica, I
never thought I'd find somebody that had as much in common with me as she
does. After I met her, I was convinced the feat was unrepeatable. I was wrong,
and I've never been happier to be wrong about anything. What's more, Michael
and I _also_ have ridiculous amounts of things in common (and Erica shares
many things with both of them too). It is really as if we found copies of us
that are sufficiently different so as to be interesting and engaging.

The motto of the Boy Scouts is "Be Prepared." I totally wasn't prepared for
any of this. I had just thought that we had found awesome friends and gaming
buddies. All of this ran me over like a freight train filled with anvils, but
I wouldn't have it any other way.

   [1]: http://www.okcupid.com

   [2]: http://really-really.blogspot.com

   [3]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polyamory

