---
layout: post
title: Dear Son
---

I write to you on your estimated due date. You haven't been born just
yet, but I know you will be here soon. I am filled with impatience,
excitement and anxiety. Impatient for what will most certainly be one
of the most joyous events of my life; excited to meet and hold the
most amazing thing I have helped bring into this world; and anxious
that I am not prepared.

I want you to know that I love you. Mom loves you. We love you
unconditionally. That means we love you no matter what, and when we say
no matter what, we really mean it. We love you and we accept you for who
you are, and who you want to be. We may not always understand you, we
may not always agree with you, we may not always approve of your
decisions, but we will always love you, and we will always accept
you. Always. Unconditionally.

There is so much that I want to share with you; so many amazing
things. I can't wait to teach you about anything you want to
know. We'll have years to learn everything we can imagine. But, there
is something I think it's so important that you learn, that I want to
start teaching it to you before you're even born.

Always be respectful of people. Be respectful of those you agree with,
and of those you disagree with. Be respectful of men, and of women. Be
respectful of people like you, and of people unlike you. Be respectful
of people regardless of their race, sex, gender, sexuality, beliefs,
occupation, hobbies, habits, or other attributes. People deserve to be
treated with respect. All people. Every single one.

If you never listen to anything else I say, please listen to this.

Love,

Dad