----
title: It's Alive!
----

It's been a long time since I [last][1] posted.  A lot has happened
since then, and I haven't given much thought at all to blogging. I
missed 2012 entirely. I even considered shutting the site down. But, I
have found a renewed interest.

The biggest thing that's happened in the last 18 months is that we had
another son. On Liam's first birthday, we found out Erica was
pregnant, and on November 4th, 2012, Elijah Rowan Tesla came into this
world. He is just like his brother in most of the ways we expected
(e.g. he's huge), and not like his brother at all in ways we didn't
expect. He's wonderful, and I love him. Needless to say, I haven't had
a lot of brain for blogging.

I spent most of my free time over the last year roleplaying. I enjoy
playing table-top roleplaying games online on [MUSHes][2]. I know,
it's very 1980s of me. One of the nice things about this hobby is I
can do it from both my laptop and my phone, so I can do it when I'm
stuck in a bedroom with a boy. Of course, this hobby expanded to fill
all of my available time and brainspace. That's another reason I
haven't been blogging much.

So why the sudden inspiration to start blogging again? Well, for one,
I'd like to work on developing a writing habit that's a bit longer
than 140 characters. I was also reminded that sometimes I have good
things to say. Back in February, I was reading my news when I came
across an [article][3] that had a quote attributed to me right across
the top.

> "Go is not meant to innovate programming theory. It’s meant to
> innovate programming practice." — Samuel Tesla

It was a bit surreal to see my own words quoted on somebody else's
blog. Especially when I didn't remember when exactly I'd said them. I
dug around and finally unearthed the [rant][4] here on my blog where
I'd said that. Kudos to Carl for extracting the best two sentences of
that entire post. Since then, I've seen it crop up in a [few][5]
[places][6]. I even had a coworker ask me if I was the same Samuel
Tesla that has the quote about Go.

Aside from stroking my ego, seeing that quote out there made me want
to keep the site up and start posting again. But, the final barrier to
my blogging was that I was unhappy with my [tools][7]. I have fallen
out of love with Ruby over the last few years, and besides, Jekyll is
just slow on my site. Cue the inevitable migration, because setting up
my blog is way more fun than actually blogging, and here I am. My site
is now powered by [Hakyll][8], which is very similar, and yet much
more suited to my needs.

Let's see if I can at least put as much work into writing new content
for the site as I did porting it over to a new tool.

   [1]: /2011/11/22/so-thats-eight-months.html
   [2]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MUSH
   [3]: http://blog.carlsensei.com/post/42828735125
   [4]: /2009/12/15/newsflash-go-is-experimental.html
   [5]: http://go-lang.cat-v.org/
   [6]: http://www.oscon.com/oscon2013/public/schedule/detail/28478
   [7]: http://jekyllrb.com/
   [8]: http://jaspervdj.be/hakyll/
